Docs for `hello-world` w/HOPR (#3397)
hoprnet/hoprnet: docs/hopr-documentation/docs/developers/tutorial-hello-world.md

---
id: tutorial-hello-world
title: HOPR Apps - Hello world
---

The following is a 5-minutes guide for you to get familiar with the HOPR protocol and start developing apps on top of the
HOPR network by learning how to send and read messages from one node to another.

## Requirements

### 1. Previous guides

Before getting started, we suggest you get familiar with the following concepts:

- ["Running a local HOPR Cluster"](#)
- ["Interacting with a HOPR node"](#)

### 2. HOPR Cluster & exported variables

Make sure you have a HOPR cluster available for you to connect. Also, make sure to have the equivalent of at least `2`

> nodes endpoints (both HTTP and WS). Here are the default values for each of these endpoints.

Reviewer: Also the nodes need to be funded.

Author: I was on the impression that the terminology of `HOPR Cluster` implied nodes with funded channels interconnected between each other. I'll make a footnote about this.

Author: Included in [8abc8fb](https://github.com/hoprnet/hoprnet/pull/3397/commits/8abc8fb6f94655355f5de7df84739c33cc3e5b8e)

information to send a message from `node 1`. Make sure to keep your WebSocket client connected to see any messages to `node 2`

### 2. Sending a message from `node 2` from `node 1`:

To send a message from `node 1` to `node 2`, we need to use `node 1`'s REST API, particularly the `/messages` endpoint. Using `curl`
or any other HTTP client, send the following request:

```
echo -n $apiToken | base64 | xargs -I {} curl -s -H "Authorization: Basic {}" \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
-d '{"body":"Hello world","recipient":"16Uiu2HAmKhrwGWcvaZ3ic5dgy7oFawmnELJGBrySSsNo4bzGBxHW"}' \
$HOPR_NODE_1_HTTP_URL/api/v2/messages
```

In the terminal of `node 2`, you will see something similar to this:

```
{"type":"log","msg":"#### NODE RECEIVED MESSAGE [2022-02-03T21:48:13.845Z] ####","ts":"2022-02-03T21:48:13.845Z"}
{"type":"log","msg":"Message: Hello world","ts":"2022-02-03T21:48:13.846Z"}
{"type":"log","msg":"Latency: 668ms","ts":"2022-02-03T21:48:13.846Z"}
{"type":"message","msg":"Hello world","ts":"2022-02-03T21:48:13.847Z"}
```

Congratulations! You have sent your first message using the HOPR protocol!

### 3. Extra: Channels and tickets

> You can not send an unlimited amount of messages. Each message requires `ticket`s, headers with signatures for claiming

Reviewer: Applies to multi-hop messages, 0-hop can be sent infinitely.

Author: Correct, but the message here is related to the REST API. Valid point though, worth adding it to a footnote.

Author: Included in [8abc8fb](https://github.com/hoprnet/hoprnet/pull/3397/commits/8abc8fb6f94655355f5de7df84739c33cc3e5b8e)

balance updates in a `HOPR` token balanced Payment Channel. For every relayer you use (default `2`) you need to "attach"

> `HOPR` tokens (`0.01` per relay), which are used to pay for relayer's work, and are settledin a global single entry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HOPR` tokens (`0.01` per relay), which are used to pay for relayer's work, and are settled in a global single entry
```
